update/require-dbt-version to support fusion (#8152)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/reference/project-configs/require-dbt-version.md

default_value: None
---

:::info Fusion compatibility

> The `require-dbt-version` also signals whether a project or package supports <Constant name="fusion_engine"/> (`2.0.0` and higher). 

Reviewer: Suggest removing "also" since theres no context before this callout
```suggestion
The `require-dbt-version` signals whether a project or package supports <Constant name="fusion_engine"/> (`2.0.0` and higher). 
```

> - If your version range includes 2.0 and higher, <Constant name="fusion"/> treats it as compatible. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If your version range includes 2.0 and higher, it's compatible with <Constant name="fusion"/>. 
```

> - Initially, <Constant name="fusion"/> will show a warning when a project or package excludes 2.0+. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Initially, <Constant name="fusion"/> will show a warning when a project's or package's `require-dbt-version` excludes 2.0+. 
```

> - In a future release, this will error, matching <Constant name="core"/> behavior. 

Reviewer: @graciegoheen or @gshank Is there any way we can be more specific here? Will that "future version" be prior to GA, could we say 
```suggestion
- Before the GA release, this behavior will change to result in an error, matching <Constant name="core"/> behavior. 
```

Reviewer 2: @eliasdefaria do you think we will flip this to error before GA? that makes sense to me

Author: great sugg! we're going to keep as is for now as this will depend on package compatibility progress!

## Definition

You can use `require-dbt-version` to restrict your project to only work with a range of dbt versions.

When you set this configuration:

> - dbt issues error messages for packages on the [dbt Packages hub](https://hub.getdbt.com/) that specify a `require_dbt_version` that doesn't match. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you have installed packages from the [dbt Packages hub](https://hub.getdbt.com/) that specify a `require_dbt_version` that doesn't match, running dbt commands will result in an error. 
```

> - This can be useful for package maintainers (such as [dbt-utils](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-utils)) to ensure that users' dbt version is compatible with the package. 

Reviewer: Slight suggestion so it flows with the lead in
```suggestion
- It helps package maintainers (such as [dbt-utils](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-utils)) ensure that users' dbt version is compatible with the package. 
```

> - Signals [compatibility with <Constant name="fusion_engine"/>](#fusion-compatibility) (`2.0.0` and higher).

Reviewer: Same here
```suggestion
- It signals [compatibility with <Constant name="fusion_engine"/>](#fusion-compatibility) (`2.0.0` and higher).
```

- It might also help your whole team remain synchronized on the same version of dbt for local development, to avoid compatibility issues from changed behavior.

> You should pin to a major release. See [pin to a range](#pin-to-a-range) for more details. If this configuration isn't specified, no version check will occur.

Reviewer: Based on the conversations I overheard, I thought this was a requirement (correct me if I'm wrong)
```suggestion
You must pin to a major release. See [pin to a range](#pin-to-a-range) for more details. If this configuration isn't specified, no version check will occur.
```

> You must pin to a major release. See [pin to a range](#pin-to-a-range) for more details. If this configuration isn't specified, no version check will occur.

Reviewer 2: you _should_ pin to a major release - it's not required

You can use `require-dbt-version` to restrict your project to only work with a range of dbt versions. 

> When you set this configuration, dbt issues error messages for packages on the [dbt Packages hub](https://hub.getdbt.com/) that specify a `require_dbt_version` that doesn't match. This can be useful for package maintainers (such as [dbt-utils](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-utils)) to ensure that users' dbt version is compatible with the package. Setting this configuration might also help your whole team remain synchronized on the same version of dbt for local development, to avoid compatibility issues from changed behavior.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you set this configuration, dbt issues error messages for any user who attempts to run the package with an unsupported version of dbt. This is currently only enforced for packages on the [dbt Packages hub](https://hub.getdbt.com/). This can be useful for package maintainers (such as [dbt-utils](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-utils)) to ensure that users' dbt version is compatible with the package. Setting this configuration might also help your whole team remain synchronized on the same version of dbt for local development, to avoid compatibility issues from changed behavior.
```

You can use `require-dbt-version` to restrict your project to only work with a range of dbt versions. 

> When you set this configuration, dbt sends a helpful error message for any user who attempts to run the project with an unsupported version of dbt. This can be useful for package maintainers (such as [dbt-utils](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-utils)) to ensure that users' dbt version is compatible with the package. Setting this configuration might also help your whole team remain synchronized on the same version of dbt for local development, to avoid compatibility issues from changed behavior.

Reviewer 3: Actually I don't believe that dbt issues an error message for non-matching versions in the "require-dbt-version" at all yet. It issues error messages for packages that have been uploaded to the HUB that have a specified "require_dbt_version" that doesn't match. We probably ought to issue error messages for non-matching dbt_project.yml require-dbt-versions, but it isn't happening yet.

Author: i just tested to confirm and youre right @gshank ! will update this 🙏 thanks for flagging this existing content!

If this configuration is not specified, no version check will occur.

> Before v1, we recommend you pin your required dbt version to a minor release. After v1, you should pin to a major release. See [pin to a range](#pin-to-a-range) for more details.

Reviewer 3: I don't think we even support pre v1 any more, do we?  The first first sentence and the "After v1" part seem unnecessary.

require-dbt-version: ">= 1.0.0" # Don't put whitespace after the equality signs
```

#### Avoid unbounded upper limits

> We don't recommend having an unbounded `require-dbt-version` (for example, `">=1.0.0"`). Without an upper limit, a project may break when dbt releases a new major version. We recommend [defining both lower and upper bounds](#pin-to-a-range), such as `">=1.0.0,<3.0.0"`, to ensure stability across releases. 

Reviewer: Might be a warmer open to lead with the do's 
```suggestion
We recommend [defining both lower and upper bounds](#pin-to-a-range), such as `">=1.0.0,<3.0.0"`, to ensure stability across releases.  We don't recommend having an unbounded `require-dbt-version` (for example, `">=1.0.0"`). Without an upper limit, a project may break when dbt releases a new major version. 
```

## Fusion compatibility
The `require-dbt-version` also signals whether a project or package supports the <Constant name="fusion_engine"/> (`2.0.0` and higher).

- If it excludes `2.0.0`, <Constant name="fusion"/> will warn today and error in a future release, matching <Constant name="core"/> behavior.
- You can [bypass version checks](#disabling-version-checks) with `--no-version-check`. 

Refer to [pin to a range](#pin-to-a-range) for more info on how to define a version range.§

<Expandable alt_header="Use dbt-autofix to update your dbt project to the latest best practices">

[`dbt-autofix` tool](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-autofix) automatically scans your dbt project for deprecated configurations and updates them to align with the latest best practices and prepare for <Constant name="fusion"/> migration. When it runs, it'll also check your `packages.yml` to determine which packages it can automatically upgrade:

- <Constant name="fusion"/> compatibility &mdash; `dbt-autofix` checks whether a package’s `require-dbt-version` includes `2.0.0` or higher, signaling <Constant name="fusion"/> support.

> - Package eligibility &mdash; `dbt-autofix` automatically checks if a package is <Constant name="fusion"/>-eligible (with `require-dbt-version` including `2.0.0` or higher) and verified safe for upgrade.

Reviewer 2: the first two bullet points seem redundant?

- Upgrade logic &mdash; If both checks pass, the tool upgrades the package to the lowest <Constant name="fusion"/>-compatible version.

This ensures that `dbt-autofix`  only updates packages that are confirmed to work with <Constant name="fusion"/> and avoids updating packages that are known to be incompatible with <Constant name="fusion"/>.

</Expandable>

## Examples

The following examples showcase how to use the `require-dbt-version`:

<!-- no toc -->
- [Specify a minimum dbt version](#specify-a-minimum-dbt-version) &mdash; Use a <code>>=</code> operator for a minimum boundary.
- [Pin to a range](#pin-to-a-range) &mdash; Use a comma separated list to specify an upper and lower bound.
- [Require a specific dbt version](#require-a-specific-dbt-version) &mdash; Restrict your project to run only with an exact version of <Constant name="core" />.

### Specify a minimum dbt version
Use a `>=` operator to specify a lower and an upper limit. For example:

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yml 
require-dbt-version: ">=1.9.0" # project will only work with versions 1.9 and higher.

> require-dbt-version: ">=2.0.0" # project will only work with Fusion-compatible versions of dbt/packages.

Reviewer 2: "will only work with Fusion" 

i don't think "will only work with Fusion-compatible" makes sense

require-dbt-version: ">= 1.0.0" # Don't put whitespace after the equality signs
```

#### Avoid unbounded version ranges

Having an unbounded upper limit in `require-dbt-version` (for example, `" >=1.0.0"`) is _not recommended_ because a project may break when dbt releases a new major release. We recommend always defining both lower and upper version bounds (for example, `">=1.0.0,<3.0.0"`) to ensure stability across releases.

## Examples

The following examples showcase how to use the `require-dbt-version`:

<!-- no toc -->
- [Specify a minimum dbt version](#specify-a-minimum-dbt-version) &mdash; Use a <code>>=</code> operator for a minimum boundary.
- [Pin to a range](#pin-to-a-range) &mdash; Use a comma separated list to specify an upper and lower bound.
- [Require a specific dbt version](#require-a-specific-dbt-version) &mdash; Restrict your project to run only with an exact version of <Constant name="core" />.

### Specify a minimum dbt version

> Use a `>=` operator for a minimum boundary. In the following example, this project will run with any version of dbt greater than or equal to 1.0.0.

Author: should we have a 'not recommended' callout here?

Reviewer 3: I would just always say "specify a lower and an upper limit", and not mention just having a minimum version at all.

require-dbt-version: ">= 1.0.0" # Don't put whitespace after the equality signs
```

#### Avoid unbounded upper limits

> We don't recommend having an unbounded `require-dbt-version` (for example, `">=1.0.0"`). Without an upper limit, a project may break when dbt releases a new major version. We recommend [defining both lower and upper bounds](#pin-to-a-range), such as `">=1.0.0,<3.0.0"`, to ensure stability across releases. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We don't recommend using an unbounded `require-dbt-version` (e.g., `">=1.0.0"`). Without an upper limit, a project may break when dbt releases a new major version. We recommend [defining both lower and upper bounds](#pin-to-a-range), such as `">=1.0.0,<3.0.0"`, to ensure stability across releases. 
```

require-dbt-version: ">= 1.0.0" # Don't put whitespace after the equality signs
```

> #### Avoid unbounded version ranges

Author: ```suggestion
#### Avoid unbounded upper limits
```

> Having an unbounded upper limit in `require-dbt-version` (for example, `" >=1.0.0"`) is _not recommended_ because a project may break when dbt releases a new major release. We recommend always [defining both lower and upper version bounds](#pin-to-a-range) (for example, `">=1.0.0,<3.0.0"`) to ensure stability across releases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Having an unbounded upper limit in `require-dbt-version` (for example, `" >=1.0.0"`) is _not recommended_ because a project may break when dbt releases a new major version. We recommend always [defining both lower and upper version bounds](#pin-to-a-range) (for example, `">=1.0.0,<3.0.0"`) to ensure stability across releases.
```

</File>

> Remember, having an unbounded upper limit isn't recommended. Instead, check out the [pin to a range](#pin-to-a-range) example to define a range with both a lower and upper limit to ensure stability across releases.

Reviewer: You could probably just combine this with line 54 if you wanted to. They're very close together

### Pin to a range

> Use a comma separated list for an upper and lower bound. You can define a version range either as a YAML list (using square brackets) or as a comma-delimited string &mdash; both forms are valid and work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use a comma-separated list for an upper and lower bound. You can define a version range either as a YAML list (using square brackets) or as a comma-delimited string.
```

> - [General range](#general-range) &mdash; Use a comma separated list to specify an upper and lower bound.

Reviewer: Not a dealbreaker but I thought we were using colons in the list scenarios
```suggestion
- [General range](#general-range): Use a comma-separated list to specify an upper and lower bound.
```

> - [Fusion-compatible range](#fusion-compatible-range) &mdash; Include 2.0.0 or greater in your version range to signal compatibility with the <Constant name="fusion_engine"/>.

Reviewer: Same ? as above
```suggestion
- [Fusion-compatible range](#fusion-compatible-range): Include 2.0.0 or greater in your version range to signal compatibility with the <Constant name="fusion_engine"/>.
```

#### General range
In the following examples, this project will run with dbt 1.x.x:

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yaml
require-dbt-version: [">=1.0.0", "<2.0.0"] # with a YAML list

# OR

require-dbt-version: ">=1.0.0,<2.0.0" # with a comma-delimited string

```
</File>

#### Fusion-compatible range

> To signal compatibility with the <Constant name="fusion_engine"/>, include 2.0.0 or greater in your version range. Both YAML formats below are equivalent and valid.

Reviewer: That last part might make me wonder why we're not showing examples that aren't valid (or if we have in the past)
```suggestion
To signal compatibility with the <Constant name="fusion_engine"/>, include 2.0.0 or greater in your version range.
```
